# MasterThesis
In how far are legislators of the European Commission responsive to policy statements submitted by interest groups in online public consultations? Traditionally, text scal- ing methods, such as Wordfish, have been used to answer these kinds of questions, as they allow for detecting latent positions in text based on the statistical analysis of word occurrences. In this thesis, I challenge this approach and propose using text reuse methods for measuring influence in online public consultations instead. I find that the same, cross-validated results can be generated with text reuse methods as with Wordfish, whilst also allowing for a much more fine-grained analysis. I demon- strate that text reuse methods are superior for these kinds of research questions due to their capacity to reflect paraphrasing, their independence from policy dimensions, their ability to measure influence on a temporal basis, and the possibility to investigate the relative difference of influence between interest groups. The contribution of this thesis is threefold. First, I propose a novel pipeline for measuring influence using text reuse methods. Second, I analyze what kinds of local text reuse cases are observable in a case study of a public consultation initiated by the European Commission. Third, I demonstrate empirically that text reuse methods outperform the widely adopted Word- fish algorithm for measuring influence in public consultations. In order to conduct the analysis, a case study of the online public consultation of the European Commission regarding the CO2 emissions from vehicles (2007) is used. The replication data was compiled and made available online by Klü̈ver (2009).

The case study of the online consultation regarding the reduction of CO2 emmissions from cars of the European Commission can be accessed here: https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/suppl/10.1177/1465116509346782 
The data set was compliled by Klüver (2009).

The labeled data set was compiled by Lee, Pincombe & Welsh (2005) and can be accessed here: https://webfiles.uci.edu/mdlee/LeePincombeWelsh.zip

The GloVe files can be accessed here: https://nlp.stanford.edu/projects/glove